<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta content="ie=edge" http-equiv="x-ua-compatible"/>
    <title>Worth the Candle - Alexander Wales - Original Work</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="page_styles.css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="userstuff1" id="chapters">
<div class="calibre1">
<h2 class="heading" id="calibre_toc_5">Solely Responsible</h2>


</div>


<div class="userstuff2">
  <p class="calibre7">
  <span>“That is an XC-class soulcycle,” said the most beautiful girl in the world. The thing she was pointing at sat off to the side of the auto shop floor. It looked more or less like a motorcycle, but it had metal wheels instead of rubber and where a gas tank would normally go there was a thick glass barrel which stood completely empty. “Comfort has been picked clean and I think that’s our best chance of getting workable transportation. I can’t do it without you.”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“Two questions,” I said. “First, you haven’t given me a name.”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“That’s not a question,” she replied. “But if you’re Juniper, you can call me Cypress.”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“Second, who or what is Comfort?” I asked.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“Comfort is this town’s name, and from what I saw while I was falling, it’s the only place of note for a dozen miles,” she replied with an arched eyebrow. “You missed the giant sign?”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“I guess I was distracted by all the zombies,” I replied.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <b class="calibre2">
    <em class="calibre9">Skill unlocked: Comedy!</em>
  </b>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>But apparently the humor was lost on her, because she lifted her gun back up and pointed it right at my chest.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“What did you say?” she hissed.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>I swallowed hard. “We, uh, don’t say the z-word?”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>She slowly lowered her gun again as her pale blue eyes searched my face. “I didn’t believe you, when you said that you were a dissident. I know that things have gotten bad, especially for the poor, but … there are still traditions worth keeping. There are still rules worth following.” Her eyes left mine as her thoughts went elsewhere.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“Uh,” I said. “Okay. I really didn’t mean anything by it. I didn’t know that calling them z-um thing like that would be a big deal.”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“That’s the whole problem,” she spat. “It’s throwing the baby out with the bathwater, assuming that there aren’t reasons.”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“No, I mean, I’m not from around here,” I said. “I’m from Bumblefuck, Kansas. The first thing I saw of this world was the inside of the plane just before we dropped. I don’t know if I was magically transported here or what, but I’m not even from this world.”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <b class="calibre2">
    <em class="calibre9">Achievement Unlocked: Full Disclosure</em>
  </b>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>Cypress looked me up and down again, which gave me more time to think about how pretty she was, not that I needed it. I was starting to get annoyed with myself, but that didn’t really stop me.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“I see,” she finally said. “You’ve been dream-skewered.”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“Uh … what?” I asked.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“It’s okay,” she said. “We can still make it out of this and I can get you the help that you need.” She spoke slowly, as if to a child.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“I’m not dream-skewered,” I replied. “I’m from a place called Earth.”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>Cypress nodded. “I know it,” she said. “It has seven continents, two large oceans, and it’s a spinning globe with ice at the top or bottom. Right?”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>I nodded, slowly.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“That’s the dream that skewers,” she said. She tucked a strand of hair behind her ear. “All thoughts and memories wiped away in an instant, replaced by the dream of Earth and a different life there. It’s a fate only slightly better than death.” She shook her head. “You can still help. We still need the soulcycle up and running so we can escape the Coterie. It’s just going to make things a little bit more difficult.”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>I shook my head. “No, I’m sorry, I need to ... “ I paused and tried to gather my thoughts. “I need more. How many dream-skewered are there? Do they all have delusions of being the one to have thought up this place? Do they all see the game overlay? Do they level up like me?”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>She bit her lip. There was something new behind her pale blue eyes, a softer emotion. “There have been perhaps a thousand of the dream-skewered,” she said. “They are cared for and studied at the Athenaeum of Speculation and Scrutiny. To my knowledge, their only delusions are of their lives lived on Earth. You think that you created Aerb?”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <em class="calibre9">
    <span>Aerb. That was exactly the sort of laziness that I would have shown if a player had asked me the name of the world and I hadn’t had one available.</span>
  </em>
  <span> “Parts of this world look similar to ideas that I had come up with back on Earth,” I said. I didn’t know the full scope yet, but there were about four or five points of similarity so far, and I had only seen a very small fraction of the world. </span>
  <em class="calibre9">
    <span>Please, please don’t have Fel Seed.</span>
  </em>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>Cypress frowned. It was a pretty frown. “How narcissistic,” she said. “Nothing against you, obviously, I’m just thinking about it in the context of the delusion. The interesting thing about the dream-skewered is that their records of Earth match up, even if they haven’t had communication with each other. But for you to work elements of this world into your delusion … if, when we get out of here, you’ll have to consult with the Athenaeum of Speculation and Scrutiny.”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <b class="calibre2">
    <em class="calibre9">Quest Accepted: Straddling Worlds!</em>
  </b>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>I’d done nothing of the sort, but I was starting to realize that accuracy of language was not the game layer’s strong suit.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“What about the game overlay?” I asked. She gave me a questioning look. “There are words that appear over my field of view,” I said.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“I’ve never heard of such a thing,” she said. She looked toward the motorcycle - the soulcycle, I guess she’d called it. “Whatever is wrong with you … it has to wait. We’re safe here, I think, so long as the Coterie doesn’t attack en masse, but that’s only a matter of time. We need damned souls to fuel the soulcycle.” She walked over to the work bench. I noted that she still held her gun in one delicate hand. She picked up a small jar with thick glass walls, put a long spike in it, then handed it to me. Our fingers touched briefly.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“Have you ever used one of -- no, sorry, your memories are gone, of course you wouldn’t remember if you had. Stab the spike into the heart or head of a corpse, the runes will draw the soul out. If you see someone die, you have thirty minutes to collect before the soul leaves the body. If their heart is still intact, you have maybe three minutes until they rise as one of the undead, but the soul is still retrievable so long as they’re put down before the half hour is up.” She went back to the bench and picked up a glass stopper. “Keep the jar sealed when there are souls within it, they’ll dissipate otherwise. We’ll need seven, I think, to get where we’re going.”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <em class="calibre9">
    <span>Seven Bells for Seven Hells.</span>
  </em>
  <span> That was the first thing that really succeeded in affecting my impression of Cypress. She had killed the guy in the waiting room, I was almost certain of that, but that didn’t really bother me. She had pointed a gun at, variously, my face, throat, groin, stomach, and chest, but a defensive posture was something to be admired in a place like this. Destroying souls in order to fuel a motorcycle that would get us out of here … well, that was pretty metal, but it left a bad taste in my mouth.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“Wait, is there an afterlife?” I asked.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>Cypress’ lips formed a thin line as she looked at me. “I was serious when I said that we don’t have much time, Joon.” The sound of my name leaving her lips sent a shiver down my spine.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“Alright,” I said. “You want me to go out and scavenge. I can do that.” I looked at her gun, which she was still holding loosely by her side. “I would probably fare better if I didn’t have to go into melee.”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>To my surprise, Cypress handed me her pistol. My surprise must have been evident on my face, because she gestured to the worktable. “I’ll build another,” she said.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <b class="calibre2">
    <em class="calibre9">Skill unlocked: Pistols!</em>
  </b>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>I looked down at the gun in my hand. The boxy part had roughly the proportions of a deck of playing cards, but slightly bigger and set on edge. A rubber grip with a trigger was attached to it; it wasn’t a normal trigger you’d pull with your finger, but instead the kind of thing you’d find on a spray bottle, where the trigger extended down the length of the handle and was squeezed with all the fingers of the hand. I looked at the hole in the boxy part, but couldn’t see inside. There was no obvious mechanism for feeding ammo into it.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>I had a bunch of questions for Cypress, but I worried that she would think they were dumb. Questions like, how the fuck did you build a gun in the hour or so we’d been here? Or, what does this gun even shoot? Or, isn’t this gun going to be difficult to shoot given that you have to squeeze your entire hand? And, given that, how did you manage to shoot a guy in the center of his head with this thing? She knew that I knew nothing about this world though, and had offered me the gun anyway, without deeper explanations, so I figured asking would just get her even more exasperated with me and wasn’t likely to get answers.</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>“Seven souls,” I said. “I’ll be back when I have them.”</span>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <b class="calibre2">
    <em class="calibre9">Loyalty Increased: Amaryllis lvl 0!</em>
  </b>
</p><p class="calibre7">
  <span>I went out the way I had come, back through the dark hallway and into the reception area. The corpse was still sitting there, smelling up the place. I took a moment to take stock of my situation.</span>
</p>
</div>



      
</div>

</body></html>
