<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta content="ie=edge" http-equiv="x-ua-compatible"/>
    <title>The Council of Arches - cthulhuraejepsen - Worth the Candle</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="page_styles.css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="userstuff1" id="chapters">
<div class="userstuff2">
<h2 class="calibre15" id="calibre_pb_11">Enates</h2><p class="calibre7"><b class="calibre2">Prerequisites: </b>A 5 or greater in Wits.</p><p class="calibre7"><b class="calibre2">Malus:</b> -1 to base Physique.</p><p class="calibre7"><b class="calibre2">Effect: </b>Each morning at dawn, you may crystallize out a number of skills equal to your Wits. These skills can be as big or small as you like, with examples including archery, cooking, or lockpicking. For each crystallized skill, flip a card and set it aside. When you use that skill, instead of flipping a card as normal, you will instead add the value of the card to half your Wits (rounded up). At the end of the day (or the next morning at dawn), return that card to your deck, but not before then. If you crystallize two or more skills, they cannot overlap.</p><p class="calibre7">
  <em class="calibre8"> An enate never knows what they’ll be good at that day. Sometimes they choose swords, and become a master swordsman, at the expense of everything else. Other times, they’ll be worse than a rank novice, but the day will go better for them in other ways. As a consequence, the enates tend to be adaptable, ready to take on the world through different methods. </em>
</p>
</div>



</div>

</body></html>
