<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta content="ie=edge" http-equiv="x-ua-compatible"/>
    <title>The Council of Arches - cthulhuraejepsen - Worth the Candle</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="page_styles.css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="userstuff1" id="chapters">
<div class="userstuff2">
<h2 class="calibre15" id="calibre_pb_13">Magic Items (optional)</h2>
<ul class="calibre12">
<li class="calibre13"><em class="calibre8"><em class="calibre8">Echo stone: </em>Once per day, this red gem can be pinched in order to echo a previous success. The next time you’d flip, instead pick a card from your discard and use that instead.</em></li>
</ul>
<ul class="calibre12">
<li class="calibre13">
<em class="calibre8">Shade’s cloak:</em> When you flip to sneak or hide, flip two cards and use whichever you prefer.</li>
</ul>
<ul class="calibre12">
<li class="calibre13">
<em class="calibre8">Cursed bauble:</em> When this item comes in your possession, set aside your lowest card (excluding the off-arche). If you ever lose this item, shuffle that card into your deck.</li>
</ul>
<ul class="calibre12">
<li class="calibre13">
<em class="calibre8">Titan’s rod: </em>When you flip a 7, flip an additional card and add it to the total.</li>
</ul>
<ul class="calibre12">
<li class="calibre13">
<em class="calibre8">Fiddler’s delight: </em>So long as your discard pile has no more than seven cards in it, you may shuffle your discard into your deck as often as you’d like.</li>
</ul>
<ul class="calibre12">
<li class="calibre13">
<em class="calibre8">Three card monty: </em>Once per day when you flip, you may hand the Archemaster the top three cards of your deck. He will set them in front of you, face down. Pick one. The Archemaster will reveal the lower of the two remaining cards, and you may choose to keep the card you initially picked, or switch to the other card.</li>
</ul></div>



</div>

</body></html>
