<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta content="ie=edge" http-equiv="x-ua-compatible"/>
    <title>The Council of Arches - cthulhuraejepsen - Worth the Candle</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="page_styles.css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="userstuff1" id="chapters">
<div class="userstuff2">
<h1 class="calibre11" id="calibre_pb_7">Character Creation</h1><p class="calibre7">Your character has four attributes: Physique, Endurance, Wits, and Charm.</p><p class="calibre7"><b class="calibre2">Physique:</b> Your ability to move quickly and exert power.</p><p class="calibre7"><b class="calibre2">Endurance: </b>Your ability to take a hit and sustain power.</p><p class="calibre7"><b class="calibre2">Wits:</b> How smart and knowledgeable you are.</p><p class="calibre7"><b class="calibre2">Charm:</b> How good you are with people.</p><p class="calibre7">Before making your character, flip up five pairs of cards. Select the highest card from two of the pairs, and the lowest card from two other pairs. Those four cards will determine your character’s attributes. Take half the numeric value of each card, rounding down, and assign those numbers to your four attributes. (Off-arche counts as 0, on-arche counts as 14.)</p><p class="calibre7">Attributes can never be lowered below 0.</p><p class="calibre7">
  <em class="calibre8"> Ex. Mary flips up: </em>
</p>
<ul class="calibre12">
<li class="calibre13"><em class="calibre8">A nine and a king (9, 13)</em></li>
</ul>
<ul class="calibre12">
<li class="calibre13"><em class="calibre8">A crone and a seven (0, 7)</em></li>
</ul>
<ul class="calibre12">
<li class="calibre13"><em class="calibre8">A three and a fop (3, 14)</em></li>
</ul>
<ul class="calibre12">
<li class="calibre13"><em class="calibre8">A four and an eight (4, 8)</em></li>
</ul>
<ul class="calibre12">
<li class="calibre13"><em class="calibre8">A one and a six (1, 6)</em></li>
</ul><p class="calibre7"> <em class="calibre8">From this, there are several possible arrays that she could choose. Mary decides that she’s going to take the 13 and 14, leaving her to choose two low cards from the remaining three pairs. She selects 1 and 4 as her best options. With an array of [1, 4, 13, 14], she halves all values, rounding down, to get [0, 2, 6, 7]. She then decides that she’s going to put the 7 into Charm, 6 into Wits, 2 into Endurance, and finally, 0 into Physique.</em></p><p class="calibre7">
  <em class="calibre8"> If she had wanted a more balanced array, she might have chosen the 7 and 14 as her high cards, and the 4 and 9 as her low cards, giving her an array of [4, 7, 9, 14], which would become [2, 3, 4, 7], allowing her to be a better generalist at a cost to specialization. </em>
</p><p class="calibre7"><b class="calibre2">Alternate Rule:</b> If you find that too confusing and complicated, you can instead assign the numbers 2, 3, 5, and 6 to your attributes as you see fit. This is less fun.</p>
</div>



</div>

</body></html>
