<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta content="ie=edge" http-equiv="x-ua-compatible"/>
    <title>The Council of Arches - cthulhuraejepsen - Worth the Candle</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="page_styles.css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="userstuff1" id="chapters">
<div class="userstuff2">
<h1 class="calibre11" id="calibre_pb_10">Magic!</h1>
<h2 class="calibre14">Salvers</h2><p class="calibre7"><b class="calibre2">Prerequisites: </b>A 5 or greater in Charm.</p><p class="calibre7"><b class="calibre2">Malus:</b> -1 to base Physique.</p><p class="calibre7"><b class="calibre2">Effect: </b>You may use your fairies to replace the attribute for any flip besides a defense flip with Charm instead. You may also make a Charm flip to perform supernatural acts (your Archemaster will tell you the target ahead of time, with bigger effects requiring you to meet a higher target). However, you are in some ways a slave to the fairies, and must select a Compulsion that they expect you to follow. Additionally, too many requests to the fairies in too short a period may result in a malus on flips, especially if their desires haven’t been sated (your Archemaster will give you periodic updates, either as you pass certain thresholds, or when you ask).</p><p class="calibre7"><b class="calibre2">Example Compulsions: </b>A salver might have a Compulsion toward flowers, and be compelled to always seek more of them, more unique ones, more beautiful ones, etc. A salver with such a compulsion might find themselves constantly on the road, visiting new flowers, buying books depicting flowers, and otherwise finding ways to feed their tree and the fairies that have been attracted to it. A skilled salver who devotes time to the task can maintain a large collective of invested fairies indefinitely.</p><p class="calibre7">
  <em class="calibre8"> Salvers have small, crystalline trees growing from their heads, which only they can see and interact with. Fairies are drawn to this tree, and whatever specialty it provides them. The salver can, in some respects, be seen as a farmer or herder, tending to the tree and the fairies by hewing to their esoteric demands, and in return, harvesting their labor. They often name the most active and valuable of their fairies, though the populations can be quite ephemeral. </em>
</p>
</div>



</div>

</body></html>
