<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta content="ie=edge" http-equiv="x-ua-compatible"/>
    <title>The Council of Arches - cthulhuraejepsen - Worth the Candle</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="page_styles.css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="userstuff1" id="chapters">
<div class="userstuff2">
<h1 class="calibre11" id="calibre_pb_12">Notes for Archemasters</h1><p class="calibre7">In the game of Arches, the players flip the cards, not you. You control the targets, call for flips, and set modifiers, but the player’s fate is in their own hands.</p><p class="calibre7">Arches is intended as a rules light system with lots of wiggle room for an experienced Archemaster and not too much to keep track of for novice players (which is the function that it serves in the story). Ad hoc penalties and bonuses are the name of the game, both for balance and for flavor; being light on the rules means that players are free to stretch out and worry more about what their characters would or would not do, rather than what they’re mechanically confined to by the mechanics. Arches works best when you adopt a “yes, and” or “yes, but” approach to player suggestions, especially with regards to combat.</p><p class="calibre7">The use of a deck rather than dice smooths out the probability somewhat; after fifteen flips (thirteen if you’re dividing up a regular deck of playing cards), the player will have gone through all the cards once. The flip side to this regularity is that card counting is a definite possibility, and in some respects, the first resort of someone trying to munchkin the game. A munchkin player will try to either conserve their flips or force a lot of frivolous ones, depending on what’s left in their deck, especially as it dwindles. If this becomes a problem, you can institute a rule that the player will shuffle after every flip, which adds some overhead for the player, but reduces it for you. Note that if you implement this fix, you should make sure that you’re not using any optional rules that make use of the discard pile or key off reshuffling.</p>
</div>



</div>

</body></html>
