<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta content="ie=edge" http-equiv="x-ua-compatible"/>
    <title>The Council of Arches - cthulhuraejepsen - Worth the Candle</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="page_styles.css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="userstuff1" id="chapters">
<div class="userstuff2">
<h1 class="calibre11" id="calibre_pb_8">Play</h1><p class="calibre7">When you attempt to do something, the Archemaster might tell you to flip a card, along with the associated attribute you’ll be using. Add the value of the card to attribute, then tell the Archemaster the total. He will compare that number to the target and tell you the consequences.</p><p class="calibre7">The target to hit a town guard might be something like 7, which would mean that if you had 0 Physique, you would hit roughly half the time, and if you had 7 Physique, you would almost always hit (except if you flip the off-arche).</p><p class="calibre7">For many flips, the Archemaster will use degrees of success, usually in increments of 5. For example, if your target is 7 and the result of your attack is 12, you typically do one extra damage. A 17, which would be two degrees of success, typically allows two extra damage. A roll of 2, however, would be an extra degree of failure, which often has additional negative consequences.</p><p class="calibre7">On-arches (scholar, virgin, fop, matron) have a numeric value of 14, while off-arches (joker, whore, brute, crone) have a numeric value of 0. If a flip with an off-arche is a failure, it fails by an extra degree, or if it succeeds, it represents a minimal success. If a flip with an on-arche is a success, it succeeds by an extra degree, or if it fails, it represents a minimal failure.</p><p class="calibre7">Generally speaking:</p>
<ul class="calibre12">
<li class="calibre13">Physique is used for physical attacks, with the exception of heavy weapons. It’s also used when you’re trying to be fast.</li>
<li class="calibre13">Endurance is used for taking a hit, unless you intend to dodge. It’s also used when you’re trying to sustain power, as with holding a door shut.</li>
<li class="calibre13">Wits are used when you’re trying to be smart, clever, or knowledgable. You use them to see through lies, get a hint on a puzzle, or conduct research.</li>
<li class="calibre13">Charm is used when you’re trying to convince someone, tell a lie, or more generally, interact with someone.</li>
</ul><p class="calibre7">After you’ve flipped a card, discard it. Once your discard pile is full, shuffle all the cards back into your deck and start over.</p>
</div>



</div>

</body></html>
