<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta content="ie=edge" http-equiv="x-ua-compatible"/>
    <title>The Council of Arches - cthulhuraejepsen - Worth the Candle</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css"/>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="page_styles.css"/>
</head>
  <body class="calibre">
<div class="userstuff1" id="chapters">
<div class="userstuff2">
<h1 class="calibre11" id="calibre_pb_9">Combat</h1><p class="calibre7">In combat, players take turns in order of highest Physique, with the opposing side taking their place in turn order based on Archemaster discretion. A turn consists of a big action (like attacking), a small action (like opening a door), and movement.</p><p class="calibre7">Players have Health, which is equal to Endurance plus four, to a minimum of four.</p><p class="calibre7">When you are attacked, flip defense, usually an Endurance flip. If your total is equal or greater than the target, you take no damage. If your total is less than the target, you will take damage, and you will take more damage for each degree of success you fail by. (You can also choose to dodge, which uses Physique instead of Endurance, but will cause you to take one additional damage if you’re hit.)</p><p class="calibre7">When you attack, flip attack, usually a Physique flip. If you hit the target, you do one damage. Each degree of success allows you to do one extra damage. If you kill a target by two or more damage, you may immediately make another attack, once per turn. If you have two degrees of failure, the enemy made immediately riposte. (If using a heavy weapon, make an Endurance flip instead, dealing an extra damage on any success, but you cannot make more than one attack in a turn, nor can you use your small action.)</p><p class="calibre7">You can choose to disarm as your big action. To do so, flip two cards for a Physique flip and take the highest. If your result is five or more higher than their normal defense target, you disarm them.</p><p class="calibre7">There are no formal rules for what can or cannot be used as a weapon, but it’s at the Archemaster’s discretion to disallow certain weapons, or to penalize stupid choices.</p><p class="calibre7">Armor provides no benefit or detriment.</p><p class="calibre7">If you are reduced to 0 health, make a flip. If the result is the on-arche, you heal to 1 Health. Otherwise, if it’s lower than 14 - Endurance, you die. If the flip is equal to or greater than 14 - Endurance, your Endurance is reduced by 1 and you must make the same flip on your turn each round until progressively lower Endurance makes success impossible, or you manage to draw your on-arche.</p>
</div>



</div>

</body></html>
